# repo-4

10/1/2024

Tuples in python. 

Tuples are ordered, unchangeable arrays in python. Tuples allow duplication of values. The values are inserted inside round brackets (parenthesis). length of the tuple can be accessed using len() method. Tuples are indexed so the values or items in tuples can be accessed using the index value starting from 0: sampletuple[index]. Tuples can have one value. It is defined simmilar to multi value tuples but comma is needed at the end of the value. The type of the tuple can be displayed using type() method. Negative index are allowed in tuples as illustrated in the code file tuples.py. : is used to display range of items. The first index is included while the last one is excluded. An empty value before : denotes the first value of the tuple while the empty value after : refers to the ending value of the tuple. To check the presence of particular value in tuple, we can use if and in keywords. To update the tuple, we have to change the tuple to list and update it and later convert it to tuple again. We can add two tuples together using + operator. Deleting can be done by using del keyword. Unpacking a tuple can be done using variables in parenthesis and * can be used for multi value assignment. looping in tuple is similar to lists. For and while loops can be used. In for loop indexing can be done to access the values of tuples as shown in code. Muliplying a tuple with a number will append the tuple to itself for the times being multiplied. Two methods count() and index() can be used to count the number of the particular value and the index of the particular value(first one). 
